# hot-seq-summer

### Datasets:

* Mus musculus: `mus_rna_seq.py` takes in `mus_rnaseq_data.xlsx` (from [this paper](https://elifesciences.org/articles/07687/)) and returns `mus_rna_seq_final.txt` - a tab delimited file containing three columns: ensembl accession ID, log fold change, and p-value.
* Homo sapiens: `HUMAN_genes.txt`
* Yeast: `yeast_degs.txt`

### Turning RNA Seq data into a dictionary:

* `rnaseq_to_dict.py`: Inputs a formatted text file with 3 columns of RNAseq data: Ensembl ID, log fold change, and p value. Outputs an RNAseq nested dict with {key:filename: {key=geneID: value= [logFC, pvalue]}}
* In the command line, you have to put all filenames in the argument at once so they are compiled to the same dictionary.

### Getting domains/GO terms:

* `annotation_download.py` can write domains (from pfam) or GO terms (from Ensembl) to .txt file. To run: `./annotation_download.py <species> <annotation>` where species = "hsapiens", "mmusculus", or "scerevisiae" and annotation = "pfam" for domains or "go_id" for GO terms.

### Enriched Domains:

* `enriched_domains.py` takes (a) a dictionary for a single species with format {key = geneID : value = {"logFC" = logFC, "pvalue" = pvalue}} and (b) a dictionary containing all protein domains for genes of the specified species and returns a list of protein domains that are particularly enriched in the differentially expressed genes.
  * To run: `./enriched_domains.py <diff_direction> <species>` where diff_dicrection = "up" or "down" and species is "hsapiens", "mmusculus", or "scerevisiae".
  * Output: prints to std out in tab delimited format: `geneID \t probability` for all domains with probability < 0.05
* `domain_comp.py` takes in two .txt files generated by `enriched_domains.py` and compares the enriched domains in each list.
  * To run: `./domain_comp.py <filename1> <filename2>`
  * Output: Prints to std out:
    * The number of enriched domains in list1
    * The number of enriched domains in list2
    * The number of shared domains between the two lists
    * The number of domains only enriched in list1
    * The number of domains only enriched in list2
    * Program will prompt you to ask if you want to see any of the domain lists printed to std out. Choices: (0 = no list), (1 = domains unique to list1), (2 = domains unique to list2), (3 = shared domains)
